Term Project Proposal


Name: Plaid Plant Protectors

Description:
Tower defence game (inspired by Plants vs. Zombies)
Open to the field of the Cut. Left of the Cut is the UC.
Starting the game shows the grid field of the lawn. 
Player earns “Sunshine” every few seconds, which is used to put plants on the 
lawn.
Zombies are randomly spawned onto the right side of the Cut and walk towards 
the UC. 
Twist: halfway through the game, player starts controlling zombies – instead of
generating "Sunshine", "Moonlight" is generated, that is used to spawn zombies.
New goal is to defeat the plants and enter the UC.
Goal - can’t let the zombies reach UC before half time, and must reach UC as 
zombies after half time.


Similar Projects:
Inspired by Plants vs. Zombies. Similar in the way the first half is played.
The game starts off in a tower defence gameplay, revolving around defending the 
base from the enemy.
The game needs resource management, (conserving sunshine and moonlight) and the
player has to manage this resource to deploy the plants and later the zombies.
The biggest difference is the twist in the game – instead of deploying plants,
the player deploys the zombies.
The player must find a balance between defending the UC and leaving it open
enough that they can later defeat the plants as the zombies.


Structural Plan:
Need to make multiple different classes of the different plant and zombie types.
Class functions will be needed to operate the functions of each plant or zombie
type – e.g. attack or defensive action by the plants, walk cycle and defence by
the zombies.
Switching from the plants to the zombies will be needed.


Algorithmic Plan:
Hardest part is keeping track of the lawn and the plants on the field.
Plan on making a 2d list keeping track of the lawn and the kind of plants on it,
and also a list of all the plants existing.
Make a function adding and deleting plants on the list.
*Note: after half time switch, must also make a list of zombies.


Timeline Plan:
Finish the class functions by TP1. Start working on graphics – title screen,
instructions, and field.
By TP2, be able to deploy plants and zombies to the field. Work on timing and
sunshine/moonlight generation. Should be able to play the game as just plants.
Start working on the game twist.
TP3, finish the game twist.


Version Control Plan:
Upload files from VS code to a repository on GitHub:
https://github.com/r3dugo/CMU-TP


Module List:
No additional modules.


TP1 Update:

No changes.